Both the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution

led China to periods of chaos.
challenged peasants to work in industry.
forced people to move to communes.
were movements to encourage youth.

When China's alliance with the Soviet Union collapsed, the United States

played the "China card" to isolate the Soviets.
stayed neutral and uninvolved with China
joined with the Chinese in an alliance against the Soviets.
grew closer to the Soviets because of the situation in Korea

North Korea's economy

is a command economy in which the government makes all important economic decisions.
compares favorably with South Korea's, which is an inefficient command economy.
has gradually evolved from a command economy into a market economy.
grew extensively after the Korean War and continues to grow today.

What is the main reason Mao Zedong was able to make China communist?

The peasants supported him because he promised them lan
The landlords supported him because he demanded obedience.
The business owners supported him because he wanted to industrialize China
The warlords supported him because he promised them tax revenues.

Why did Mao's reforms fail?

His bad policies along with poor weather led to famine, and many people die
The Soviets withdrew their support.
Officials in the Communist Party tinkered with his reforms.
The Korean War consumed too many resources.

Why did U.S. leaders play the China card?

They saw the Soviet Union as a greater threat.
They wanted to win the war in Kore
They saw China as a greater threat.
They knew that the two communist nations had a strong alliance.

The United Nations intervened in North Korea because the

North Koreans invaded South Korea
Soviets backed the South Korean government.
South Koreans invaded North Korea
Chinese invaded the Korean Peninsula

Why did Korea remain divided after the Korean War?

North and South Korea negotiated a ceasefire but not a peace treaty.
South Korea remained communist.
China and the United States insisted on it.
The Soviet Union's influence decrease

What unintended consequences did the Chinese government's reforms in the 1980s have on the Chinese population?

a push for greater political freedom
greater economic freedom
land ownership by farmers
a wider range of consumer goods

Which of the following was an effect of the 2008 global economic recession on China?

retraining of workers
increased globalization
rapid urbanization
greater human rights abuses

How did the Indian government respond to the economic slowdown of the 1980s?

It relaxed government control over industry.
It increased government control over industry.
It put an end to foreign investment in industry.
It pulled back on foreign trade.

What is one example of how traditional Indian ways of life have changed?

The government provided some jobs to dalits.
Rural women now received wages for their labor.
Education became mandatory for all women.
Dalits gained equal status with other castes.

What approach did Deng Xiaoping take to economic reform?

The government allowed some private ownership of business.
The government restricted foreign investment.
The government controlled state-run factories very tightly.
The government collected farmers' surplus produce to distribute to the poor.

Which challenge does the Chinese government continue to face?

reducing air pollution
dismantling communes
developing a socialist economy
increasing economic output

How has India built a modern economy?

India moved toward a market economy and expanded in areas like information technology.
India remained a socialist economy and put most of its resources into improving agriculture.
India moved toward a market economy and encouraged people to move away from the large cities.
India remained a socialist economy and the government provided people with high-paying jobs.

What social reforms has the Indian government made over the last few decades?

Women and dalits have gained more rights to education and employment.
The caste system has been successfully dismantled.
The government has imposed a one-child policy.
Critics of the government have been sent to labor camps.

How does a rapidly expanding population affect life in India?

There are not enough jobs for all workers.
Everyone has food and medical care provided by the state.
Many people are moving to rural areas to pursue agricultural jobs.
Poor rural families are choosing to have fewer children.